---
author: <a href="/about">Hamish Rickerby</a>
comments: yes
date: '2006-07-11 12:49:00'
layout: post
slug: qf190
status: publish
title: QF190
wordpress_id: '73'
? ''
: - books
  - travel
---

(I wrote this on the plane, so things are slightly out of order on my blog...)<br /><br />I'm sitting here on QF190 in business class on my way to Sydney.  I'm reading American Psycho by Bret Easton Ellis.  I love the style of writing in that book.  The level of description for objects of desire and disgust in that book is astounding.  I thought I might write the rest of this entry in a similar style - if you have read the book or seen the movie, let me know what you think.  If you haven't, you should.  Don't think I'm an arrogant mo-fo from this post until you have, and understand the style :-)<br /><br /><br />I did not spend any time in the first class lounge as I ordinarily would as I was spending my time with AMC in the airport, talking.  I also discovered that I am arriving in the UK 3 days before my entry clearance is valid.  That sent me into a panic for 5 or so minutes with associated hot flushes, until we went to the Qantas ticketing counter and talked to the lady there.  I didn't get a good sense of reliability from the advice she offered, which is why I'm going to get Qantas to check it all out from the First Class lounge when I arrive in Sydney.  They already provide me with a greater level of trust than the ticketing counter lady, even though I have not seen or asked them to look into it for me yet.<br /><br />I was the 3rd passenger onboard the plane.  When I arrived in the departure lounge the plane was not boarding, even though the television screens said that it was.  I find that very frustrating.  I could have spent more time with AMC had I known that the plane was not _really_ boarding.  When they called the business class, platinum and gold Qantas frequent flyers, and the One World ruby and sapphire (I think) club members, I had had enough of standing around and boarded instantly.<br /><br />After I had been on the plane for around 10 minutes, I was pleasantly surprised to see that the business class cabin was sparsely populated.  I always like _not_ sitting next to someone whilst I'm flying, and as a platinum  level frequent flyer _and_ paying for a business class ticket they _never_ put me next to someone else, unless the plane is full.  There is one familiar face on the plane.  I do not know his name, but his face is familiar from the First Class lounge from back when I used to fly to Australia weekly.  I was then offered a tropical fruit fusion, a water or a champagne.  I decided on the champagne, as I always take the champagne on a flight, regardless of the time of day.<br /><br />There are 10 people in the cabin.  The capacity is 30.  4 of the people are a party of 3 women, and a baby.  The baby started screaming on takeoff, which always frustrates me.  I expect to hear that back in economy, but not in business.<br /><br />The hostess after take off came around and offered drinks.  My second drink on the plane is always a G'n'T.  This Qantas flight stocks Tanqueray London Dry Gin, which I enjoy.  It is not the number 10, but even the entry level Tanqueray is a good gin.  I decided on a small bowl of olives over the roasted assorted nuts as a snack.  I enjoy the taste of the olives, and have not had them on a plane as an in-flight snack before - they must be a new addition the the menu.  After the gin and olives, the meal service arrived.  The choices were a Thai Style Yellow Chicken Curry with Steamed Rice and Asian Greens, a Salmon Fillet with Herb Butter and Chat Potatoes, or a Salad of Roast Lamb with Chickpeas, Red Pepper and Tomatoes.  The first two items were served with a Peking Duck and Cucumber Mint Salad, and the Salad was served with a fruit salad.  There bread choice was a wholemeal or white bun.  I was drawn by the Thai Style Yellow Chicken Curry with Steamed Rice and Asian Greens, but eventually decided on the Salmon Fillet with Herb Butter and Chat Potatoes.  I felt like fish over Thai Curry, probably because I had a Thai Green Curry for dinner last night.  When the meal arrived, I had the Marlborough Sauvignon Blanc.  The salad dressing was too spicy for the meal, and the broccoli was a little overcooked.  The peas were excellent, as were the potatoes in the Herb Butter.  The salmon was to die for - I have never had such a good aircraft Salmon.  Dessert choices were a Selection of Seasonal Cheese and Dried Fruit, Ice Cream with Almond Biscuits, or chocolates.  I always take the cheese over ice-cream.  The platter consisted of an above average cheddar, and an average Camembert.  The dried fruit was _an_ apricot.  There was also a cube of quince jelly, which I enjoyed.  Then I had a 10 year old Penfolds Port, which was of average quality, a coffee, and a macadamia chocolate.<br /><br />I also drank 3 glasses of water as I need to keep my hydration up because I have been dehydrated over the weekend, and 27 hours in an aeroplane is not good for you.<br /><br />:-)