---
layout: post
title: "2014"
date: 2014-01-20 11:14:43 +1100
comments: true
categories: 
---
I'm not one for new years resolutions, but there are a couple of things I'd like to achieve this year.

1. Run 1000km
2. Design, Develop, and Release a productivity tool for small and medium businesses

1000km is something I attempted to achieve last year, but by the time February rolled around, it was obvious that that just was not going to happen. This year is going much better. I've established a running routine already, and have (as of today) extended my run distance to about 10km. I'm sure this will be much tougher when winter rolls around, but I'm up for the challenge.

The SME productivity tool is something I've been toying with the idea of for a while. The idea actually came from my sister and her husband (they run a construction company), and it solves a problem that they spend a few hours a week on. I've already got my minimum functionality defined, and business model. It works well as a SaaS/subscription style product so fits with the revenue stream style I like. I'll hopefully have a splash/info/signup page soon. I'm also looking at a new (new for me) technology stack to power this thing, so I've also got a lot of learning to be able to create it. Fingers crossed it gets off the ground.

I guess there's a third thing, but it's more of an inevitability, rather than a goal as such. We'll be having a baby soon (hopefully in 3 weeks), so life will be getting much more time-scarce. We'll see how all this holds up under parenthood.